So I’ve lived in the UK all my life and
I’ve always asked myself the question
“Why is it always so rainy?”
Now in my head, this was sort
of a rhetorical question.
It’s rainy because it’s
the UK and the UK is rainy.
But is the UK actually that rainy?
Firstly, yes... Yes, it is. But secondly when
I looked into it, according to the World Bank
there are 73 other countries that have higher
Average precipitation in mm depth per year. Some
of these countries include Bangladesh, Jamaica,
New Zealand, Japan, Switzerland, Norway, and Peru.
These statistics however don’t actually take into
account how often it rains, however. For example,
if it rains heavily in one country for
a week out of the year and only rains
lightly in another for 16 weeks out
of the year it’s possible that the one
with heavy rains might have a higher
Average precipitation depth in mm.
But why does it rain so much in the UK?
It turns out this is because of
something known as the Gulf Stream.
The Gulf Stream is a warm and swift Atlantic Ocean
current that originates in the Gulf of Mexico and
stretches to the tip of Florida and follows
the eastern coastlines of the United States.
This warm current carries on through the Atlantic
until it reaches the west coast of Europe.
In the summer this is a pretty good thing
actually because it brings with it some
warmer weather. In the winter, however… Warm
water evaporates faster than cool water and
considering that the UK is surrounded by seas
it becomes evident why there is so much rain.
So next time it’s raining and you’ve
forgotten your umbrella. You can thank
the Mexican gulf for getting you all
cold and wet. Well actually no it's
completely our fault that we’re cold but
you can definitely blame it for being wet.